hey guys my name is sebastian oreb
otherwise known as the australian
strength coach
and today i'm going to give you a video
of myself
performing a big squat session leading
up to a competition in eight weeks time
and i like to talk to you guys while i'm
performing my squats i'm performing my
warm-ups to tell you
exactly what's going through my mind
what am i thinking what am i focusing on
the technical cues that i'm trying to
perform why am i performing certain
warm-ups and
and everything about my training i
usually like to talk you through it as
i'm going
but something that i definitely know is
i'm getting to the heavy end of my
programming
this is a big squat session i've got
four more squat sessions till
competition including this
one so this was 350 kilograms
for four reps for me the best that i'd
ever done
prior to this was two reps of that
weight so this was a big pb for me
or a pr however you like to say it
personal best is what we say in
australia
and i knew that i had the strength to do
this but i knew that i needed to focus
so i decided that i wasn't going to talk
to the camera during the session
and instead i'll talk to the camera
after the session and i'm going to be
giving you a commentary as we go through
the entire session so
i hope you guys enjoy i'm going to tell
you exactly why i'm doing everything
that i do and that's all
i hope you guys enjoy before we continue
click like subscribe
all that stuff comment below if you want
to see any more like this
or whatever types of videos you want me
to record for you just let me know and
i'll make it happen
okay guys let's do it i hope you enjoyed
this is the start of my session
this is the very first thing that i'm
doing uh
as part of my warm-up routine this is
called the bird dog but it's part of a
series
the series is called the mcgill big
three this was taught to me by a mentor
of mine his name's
andrew locke and he got it from stuart
mcgill who has
currently the best spine research in the
world and what the
goal behind this is to activate the core
the first exercises is a bird dog
now what i'm doing is 30 seconds front
plank rolling over to the side so it's
15 seconds side
plank and we go 15 seconds on the other
side
so that's bracing exercises
from here we roll over to my back and i
do curl ups notice my foot position
one foot close to the butt and the other
foot uh stretched out
what that does is it neutralizes my
pelvis uh now i swap so i'll go five
with one leg close to my butt
and the the last five with the other leg
close to my butt
okay moving from there so my core is
active now i've gone to glute activation
exercises what this is is
clams 25 clams this is the way that
andrew lock
likes to teach a clam this isn't going
to get me really strong this is going to
warm up my butt muscles so
in particular the movement that i'm
doing here is called
abduction and external rotation the
muscles responsible for that is
mainly my glute min and glute me but
also a little bit of glute max too
okay so it's a small activation for the
glutes now this is a single legged
glute bridge some of you may like to
rest that top leg over the top of the
knee or whatever it doesn't really
matter
so long as one leg is performing the
glute bridges
look at the knee of the leg that's
performing it's roughly 90 degrees at
the knee so this is
10 single legged glute bridges each side
so
the reason why i have 90 degrees at the
knee if it's too far out my foot's too
far out it's too much hamstring
if the foot's too close to my butt it's
too much quadriceps so
90 degrees in my opinion that's the
sweet spot so that's
10 on each side so we did the core
activation exercises followed by the
glute activation exercises now
more funny exercises we've got big kevi
over there he's doing his warm-ups
uh next to me but what i'm doing is a
lock lap pool
make no mistake you're hearing me
talking about all of my activation
warm-up routines i got them all from
andrew locke
so the lock lap pulls basically warm up
the lats is
what i need to get under the barbell my
shoulders are really stiff
anyway now i'm doing bend overs i'm
talking a little bit fast i'm taking
through everything it's really simple
bend overs is basically me doing squats
but not just squats
how you see me performing under a
barbell when i'm nice and upright
bending over so i'm
putting blood through my upper back
muscles as well okay
this exercise this is mobility exercises
for my back
for my upper back for my shoulders this
is going to help me
it might seem silly to a lot of people
that don't have a problem grabbing onto
a bar but it's a common thing with
strong power lifters that especially
have
strong bench presses their upper body
mobility sucks so
those are great exercises that help me
get under a barbell
okay moving over to leg swings so i'm
not counting any number in particular
while i'm doing this i've been doing
this forever
whenever i've squatted it's just kind of
mobilizes my hip joint
it's not a stretch this is this is
shoulder mobility work here
getting under the bar you'll see it i
i'm so stiff and as my bench press
is getting stronger and stronger and i'm
developing more muscle mass on my
shoulders
my mobility is getting worse and worse
so i'm currently at about 118
kilograms body weight so i'm i'm getting
bigger
to the point where i'm very
uncomfortable with my own body weight
and as i get bigger i get less mobile i
become
more stiff so this is me stretching my
lats
getting into the position i'm taking the
shoulder joint
through the range of motion that i'm
going to need to get under the squat bar
which is right now first weight
30 kilograms so that whole warm-up
mobility uh activation
took me about 20 to 30 minutes
now i get under an empty bar so that
says 30 kilograms so that bar is
25 kilogram bar with two and a half
kilogram collars on the side
there's big benny on the side there
setting up the cameras
that's the depth check cam okay so
that's the first set was two sets of
five on 30 kilograms
now we jump up to 80 kilograms
one rep at a time so for all of these
weights have a look at what i'm trying
to do
i'm trying to make sure each and every
one of these sets
looks identical okay
knee wraps i've got a whole um two
videos on need
the way that i wrap my knees so if you
want to check that out that's on my
instagram page
i'll put that up here at australian
strength coach on my instagram
there's also some tutorials on facebook
on um on youtube as well if you look out
enough
but these are my soft wraps this is
seven revolutions nice and easy
technique kinda yeah well
usually i rub earlier yeah so
and i take smaller jumps
160. so the wraps basically
spring the weight up they act as
knee-joint extensors so they
make it harder to sit into position
because it's trying to keep the knee
joint straight
so it acts as really strong quadriceps
that's my brother chalking my back up
uh for me you know i like to get really
aggressive with the bar position i put
it
really low down my back and so
to grip it on my back we put as much
chalk as possible do i need to
maybe not i like to anyway
peace of mind i guess okay so this is
rhys
pale horse power lifting man this guy
can rap um
he's uh australia's best 140 kilogram
power lifter
and damn he can wrap really tight he can
also wrap very precise as well
this is the knee wrap technique that i
use for him i was the first person to
wrap his knees when he squatted 400
kilograms so he says
you know he likes to return the flavor
he wrapped my knees when i first wanted
400 kilograms as well
so the first sets i
wrapped it myself so that he can save
his hands this is exhausting on the
hands wrapping it so tight
i'm not sure what weight i'm i've got on
this set
so imagine having a guy that can then
live 400 kilograms wrap your knees
like he's strong but i've developed the
tolerance
to handle tight wraps now
but notice how neatly he's applying each
revolution
he's not just wrapping it
[Music]
he's precisely placing each revolution
in its exact spot
[Music]
yep nine revolutions just as it says
okay 240 kilograms nice and slow
and tight on the way down and driving it
up fast that's the way that i like to
teach it
when i say driving it up fast i'm not
trying to drive up fast i'm just driving
up with intent
just like standing out of a chair you
don't try and jump out of a chair
just stand up with intent same thing i'm
doing here notice
the speed of each rep is staying
consistent
3 30 was the last one i've said now is
the big set
so this is the important set this is
where we get
really tight so this is 10 revolutions
this is the tightest i've ever had my
knees wrapped actually
those are my lilly bridge wraps from
pioneer and actually
they're the same wraps that i used for
thor
in a number of his world's strongest man
competitions as well as his power acting
com
graham hicks alex simon reese keane the
guy who's wrapping my knees like
these are some of the best power lifters
in the world
use those exact wraps that i'm using i
used to think that you need brand new
wraps so that they give you
the most spring or elasticity or
whatever it is but actually
i've found that the more you use these
wraps the stretchier they get
and the more revolutions i'm able to
achieve and
yeah these ones in particular the older
they get the better they get
so these have been used in about 15
competitions
and have produced a lot of 400 kilogram
squats
it's not just the wrap though the lift
is the one that swats it
but having a good wrap is crucial
okay 350 kilograms
something you'll notice i'm bringing my
hands in each set i've brought them in
a centimeter closer each set the rule is
holding bar
as close to shoulder mobility allows
place it nice and low on my back looking
straight ahead and it's go time
pretty happy with that i could have done
five
okay so that was 350 kilograms for four
reps
that's my entire session that's session
one for the day
um i kind of make an agreement with
myself that all i need to do is that big
top set
and then i can relax so i'm gonna go and
eat some food
and i'm gonna come back for my
accessories they're gonna be light
so i don't need like right now i can't
do this without my team around me
um so you saw it's like oh man it's it's
really cool to have these guys standing
around me and screaming you just can't
fail when
you got such an awesome team around you
know i've got my brother standing
right behind me i got alex simon was
former
number one power lifter in australia
before he retired after his very second
comp
i got a 403 kilogram deadlifter wrapping
my knees
like he's also he's also a powerlifting
coach
so he knows how to rap any strong that
was the tightest i've ever had my wraps
i got an olympic weight olympic
weightlifter right there
i'm the best one of the best bench
presses in australia kevin yuan
standing right behind me i've got my
little sis over there in the corner oh
hello
jay she didn't come to chase
cheerleader and i got benny on the
camera
and it's just a great day so that's a
big pb 350 for four reps
i do believe there was an extra rep in
there but there's no point doing that
extra rep
um sticking to the plan uh
three more heavy squat sessions to go
before competition
and i'm on track so today was a good day
hope you enjoyed
so that was uh the entire session that
was me rounding up
actually straight after the session so
you got to see exactly how i felt i was
pretty happy with myself the squat
technique
that i'm following here is the exact
same squat technique
that i teach and i've actually created a
tutorial for my squatting
right here we'll stick up the link for
you so click on that if you want to see
the techniques
that i'm following myself it's the same
technique that i teach
the strongest in the world it's the same
technique that i teach my ten-year-old
daughter okay the difference is between
my ten-year-old daughter the strongest
in the world is just the weight that's
lifted but i teach everyone to squat
with good technique and check that out
hope you enjoyed click like subscribe if
you haven't already
and leave a comment below if there's
anything you want me to answer any
questions you want to answer or any
future videos you'd like me to make but
i hope you enjoyed
happy squatting everyone
[Music]